# Blender Exporter #
Download newest repository version: [download](https://github.com/rgerum/clonk-blender-exporter/archive/master.zip)

## Getting started
Open the file `object.blend`. It is the default setting of Blender equipped with the current version of the exporter.

When you open the file, Blender will ask you:

    For security reasons, automatic execution of Python scripts in this file was disabled.
    
If you click on `Allow Execution`, Blender will directly set up the export script.

### Exporting
When the exporter is loaded and a mesh object is selected in Blender, an options menu will show up in the 3D view (if it is hidden press `N` and select the `Misc` tab). In this menu you can export the mesh with the button `Export Mesh` or export the skeleton (e.g. Armature with animations) with the button `Export Skeleton`.

You can specify an `Export Mesh Name` which is as default `Graphics` as OpenClonk expects .mesh files to be called `Graphics.mesh`. And you can specify an `Export Skeleton Name`, which is the name for the .skeleton file.

*Note currently .material files are not exported and are expected to be generated by hand.*

### XML Converter
There are two types of mesh files .mesh.xml and .mesh. What is the difference? The exporter writes directly .mesh.xml 
files as these are just plain text files which can be easily generated. But for loading in Clonk they are unfortunately inefficient as they would take a long time to load. Therefore, they are converted to the binary .mesh format using the OgreXMLConverter. The exporter comes with a windows binary of this software to allow for an easy setup of the exporter. The exporter first tries to look for an installed version of the converter. If it does not find one, it looks in the subfolder `scripts/xml_converter` for the file (the default location from the repository). If you want to move youre .blend file you can also store a copy of the xml converter directly next to your .blend file.

If you use windows, the exporter will try to call the xml converter using wine, which should work fine, too.

### Exporing Animations
TODO

### Material files
TODO

### Mesh Viewer
TODO
